# Week Four journal

This week, the readings and excercises really examined how digital history fits into the broader discipline, especially how digital history can create new arguments. In the readings by Tim Hitchcock and Matthew Lincoln, both authods wonder if anything new is gained by using quantitive approaches to historical questions. Digital historians have to be mindful of whether they are asking questions that they already know the answer to or if they are only asking questions that they know computers can answer. Both articles also draw attention to the fact that we have to think about the collection of digital material that is the backbone of research in digital history. Most of the material is made up of remnants of (ususally rich) white men. Which perspectives and voices are present and which are left out? Along these lines, the White Paper argues that digital history is not just a new methodology, it is also a new form of historiography, where visualizations can argue with one another. Collections themselves can be arguments because creating them requires decisions of selecting and excluding material. The White Paper also states that the way digital history is categorized and presented is a form of argument. How specifically are things labelled? What do historians find important to identify in a source? The paper also states that there needs to be more review of digital history and digital public history in scholarly journals. Since visualizations and collections can be arguments in and of themselves, they can and should also be reviewed. But, I think that digital history arguments require some a priori knowledge for the intended audience to understand. They probably have to have a basic knowledge of statistics and contextual background knowledge about the subject and time period to understand how arguments are made. 

I find that digital history requires historians to engage with the sources more than typical history classes. For example, digital historians have to decide how to clean up data and OCR errors, how to split up a text, choose which texts go into a corpus, and choose algorithms and visualizations. All of these decisions have to be made before any interpretations of the sources are made. Because of this, this week I learned how to ask more quesitons about sources, how they are organized, and how I can use that organization to learn more about the source.
